
"J" WHY THINK?
Online Propaganda #1.23

A message from the Idea Management Corporation
An enterprise of the Ministry of the Public Mind.

          STOP THINKING!
         WHY BE BOTHERED?

     THINKING IS DOWNRIGHT DIFFICULT! Let the "J party" do the hard
work for you.  There is no reason why you should worry yourself
with thought when there are trained professionals waiting to do it
for you.  You are not qualified to think, so stop struggling with
difficult questions. We have _all_ the answers for you, either on
file in out "J Database of Political and Philosophical Ideology
(TM)," or in our heads waiting to become a "J Custom Thought (TM)"
just for you!
     As a free demonstration of how the "J party" can relieve you
of the burden of thought we will answer a few "difficult"
questions.  These questions have confused even the greatest
independent minds of all time, causing frustration, anger,
insanity, and even art!  However, with the "Principles of Jism" all
questions are simple!  Just look at these:

     Q: "Why do I exist?"
     A: To serve the "J party" and the common good, and to follow
        the "Principles of Jism."

     Q: "How can I make a difference in this world?"
     A: By following the "Principles of Jism," working hard, being
        happy, and leaving the thinking to trained "J party"
        professionals.

     Q: "What do I want to do with my life?"
     A: You want to serve the "J party" loyally and be happy at all
        times.

     Q: "How can I be a better person?"
     A: By devoting your life unquestionably serving the "J party."

     Q: "Is there a God and an afterlife?"
     A: Yes, God is a loyal "J party" member working in our
        Ministry of Theological Resources, and the afterlife a
        "J party" sanctioned state of being.

     Q: How can I lead the good life?"
     A: With "J" you will be able to acquire all the material
        possessions, popularity and influence that we want.  You
        will also discover that members of the opposite sex will
        look at you in a whole new light when you are a "Jist"



     See how easy it is when you don't have to think for yourself? 
Our easy to understand and follow answers are the key to a life of
happiness without struggle.  Eliminate indecision over courses of
action which result from your inability to answer difficult life
questions.  Eliminate long, potentially productive hours wasted
thinking.  Stop being lost in your thoughts, let the "Principles of
Jism" show you the way out.  The "J party" is _the_ Anarcho-Fascist
dada state for the _Information Anxiety Age_ we live in.  With the
"Principles of Jism" you can thwart the powers-that-be in their
conspiracy to control you through the tyranny of independent
thought.

     Thinking is a futile and often dangerous endeavor.  Thinking
brings question.  Question often results in depression,
dissatisfaction, and violence.  Thinking also gives rise to foolish
and counterproductive questions such as "Do I really exist?, "Was
there a yesterday?", "Is there a God?", and "What color boxer-
shorts should I wear today?".  These are all irrelevant to the
common good.  Few will benefit from the color of your underwear or
your religious/philosophical beliefs.  In short, thinking subverts
the common good.

            THE COMMON GOOD IS MORE IMPORTANT THAN YOU ARE!

     What benefits most people will logically benefit you.  If one
thinks only of one's self, the end result will be disaster for all
concerned.  The cause of this damaging individualism is short-
sighted, greedy, "free-thinking"!  The more you think only of
yourself, the more you are hurting yourself.

        INDIVIDUALISM IS BAD, IT SUBVERTS THE COMMON GOOD!
                    BE A PART OF THE WHOLE!
            ROCK THE BOAT AND YOU WILL SINK WITH IT!

     The more freedom you have the more dangerous you become to the
largest number of people, yourself included.  Ultimate equality and
true liberty can be achieved only through recognition of the
insignificance of the individual and the common good!







               * * JOIN THE "J PARTY" NOW! * *

     Take the first step towards a happy, fulfilling life and join
now.  Free yourself from the burden of free thought and work for
the common good as a loyal "Jist."  If you join the "J party" now
this is what you will receive for a $10.00 membership fee:

   * "J party" member identification card
   * "J party" Literature free for one year
   * Permission to attend "J party" functions

     Plus, you may also receive:

   * A discount on the "J Manifesto" when it is published in late 1993
   * Information on how to be appointed to a "J Party" Ministerial
     position even if the usual nepotistic methods of appointment
     are not available to you

     If you are not already convinced that you want to join the "J
party" and live the life we truly want you to, free from the
worries of challenging the status-quo, then send for more
information immediately!  Do not do yourself the disfavor of
denying us the opportunity to send you further proof of the wisdom
of the "Principle of Jism."  Please send $1.00 with your request to
cover printing and postage.

*****************************************************************
                I WANT YOU TO THINK FOR ME!


  NAME: ______________________________________________
  ADDRESS: ___________________________________________
  CITY: __________________________________ STATE: ____
  COUNTRY: _____________________ POSTAL CODE: ________
  AGE: _______ IQ: ________ SEX: ____ INCOME: ________
  PHONE #: ___________________ S.S.#: ________________
  MOTHER'S MAIDEN NAME: ______________________________
  RELIGIOUS AFFILIATION: _____________________________
  COLOR: ____________ HUE: ___________ TINT: _________
  CREDIT CARD NUMBERS: -------------------------------

  [ ] I want to join the "J party" immediately.  Send me my
      membership materials.  I have enclosed the $10
      membership fee.

  [ ] I don't want to join now, but I don't want to think for
       myself, either.  I have enclosed $1 for additional info.

  Make checks or money orders payable to "The J party"
  Send to: "J party" H.Q. East
           ATTN: Ministry of Indoctrination
           159 West St.
           Lenox Ma 01240
